README.md, before:

# monin

React Native app to track expenses through email notifications

## Folder structure
Refer [here](https://javascript.plainenglish.io/react-native-folder-structures-architecture-explained-5177027dc2bb)

```
myApp/
├── App.tsx
├── assets/
│   └── images/
│   └── fonts/
├── components/
│   └── Button.tsx
│   └── Header.tsx
├── screens/
│   └── HomeScreen.tsx
│   └── LoginScreen.tsx
├── navigation/
│   └── AppNavigator.tsx
├── constants/
│   └── Colors.ts
│   └── Strings.ts
├── utils/
│   └── formatDate.ts
│   └── validators.ts
├── services/
│   └── api.ts
├── types/
│   └── index.ts
└── package.json
```

OR

```
├── assets/
├── scripts/
├── src/
│   ├── app/
│   │   ├── api/                    # API routes in a separate folder
│   │   │   ├── event+api.ts
│   │   │   └── user+api.ts
│   │   ├── layout.tsx
│   │   ├── layout.web.tsx         # separate layout file for web
│   │   ├── index.tsx
│   │   ├── events.tsx
│   │   └── settings.tsx
│   ├── components/
│   │   ├── Table/
│   │   │   ├── Cell.tsx
│   │   │   └── index.tsx
│   │   ├── BarChart.tsx
│   │   ├── BarChart.web.tsx        # separate components for web and native
│   │   └── Button.tsx
│   ├── screens/
│   │   ├── Home/
│   │   │   ├── Card.tsx            # component only used in the home page
│   │   │   └── index.tsx           # returned from /src/app/index.tsx
│   │   ├── Events.tsx              # returned from /src/app/events.tsx
│   │   └── Settings.tsx            # returned from /src/app/settings.tsx
│   ├── server/                     # code used in /api
│   │   ├── auth.ts
│   │   └── db.ts
│   ├── utils/                      # reusable utilities
│   │   ├── formatDate.ts
│   │   ├── formatDate.test.ts      # unit test next to the file being tested
│   │   └── pluralize.ts
│   ├── hooks/
│   │   ├── useAppState.ts
│   │   └── useTheme.ts
├── app.json
├── eas.json
└── package.json
```

## Features (MVP)

1. Email parsing (Gmail)
2. Push notification reminders (from email parsing/user scheduled)
3. Smart categorisation rules
4. Data visualisation (monthly cash flow, spending trends across categories)
5. Export data to csv, excel

## Future features

1. Custom categories & tags
2. Search & filter
3. Recurring transactions
4. Budget goals
5. Import old transaction email data, csv, excel
6. Support Outlook emails
7. OCR
8. Cash and cashless payment integration
9. Gemini LLM integration to generate regex patterns from different email templates

## TODOs

- [x] Define features
- [x] Create figma design
  - [x] Login page
  - [x] Home page
  - [x] Settings page
  - [x] Use Bolt generate UI
  - [x] Use Figma make and touch up UI
- [x] Set up dev env
  - [x] Update dependencies
  - [x] File structure
- [ ] Create UI
  - [x] LoginScreen
  - [x] HomeScreen
    - [x] Configure Victory Native for bar chart
  - [ ] SettingsScreen
    - [x] Configure routing to SettingsScreen
    - [x] Explore email parsing in Gmail (Backend API)
    - [x] Install required dependencies
    - [x] Set up Google Authentication
      - [x] Initial auth request
      - [x] Code exchange for tokens
      - [ ] Persist session
        - [ ] Cookie for web (bug now. might not be necessary)
        - [x] Expo secure storage for native
        - [x] Refresh token API
    - [x] Create a test protected API (at least for native) 
    - [x] Link to Gmail APIs
    - [ ] Refresh logic for googleAccessToken (in gcloud?)
    - [x] Parse an existing transaction email
    - [ ] Match SettingsScreen UI
- [x] Gmail API restricted scope verification
- [x] Create new Gmail and set up email forwarding
  - [x] PayLah
  - [x] YouTrip 
- [x] Analyse email templates
  - [x] PayLah
  - [x] YouTrip 
- [x] Refactor email fetching logic
- [x] Parse email transactions
  - [x] PayLah
  - [x] YouTrip
- [x] Refactor email parsing logic
- [x] Regex to extract transaction data
- [x] Implement categorisation service
- [x] Configure SQLite DB and Drizzle ORM
- [x] Integrate user categorization rules with SQLite
  - [x] Transfer hard-coded categories and rules into database
  - [x] Test transactions are automatically categorized
- [x] UI to add category
- [x] Add delete existing category feature
- [x] UI to add categorization rules
- [x] *editRule, deleteRule methods for CategorizationService
- [x] *Add providers into database
- [x] *Separate providers logic from merchant logic
  - [x] GmailParser utils
  - [x] Fetch providers from DB
- [ ] *UI to add custom provider
- [ ] *Custom provider regex logic (paste emailBlock and txnBlock)
- [ ] Gmail watch mode
  - [ ] Run email parsing on receiving new email
- [ ] *Add section for transactions with undefined categories for manual review
- [ ] Add manual review for transactions with auto-approve disabled
  - [ ] Prompt user via push notification
- [ ] *Store and cache transaction data
- [ ] *Display transaction data in UI (graphs, list, etc)
  - [ ] PayLah
  - [ ] YouTrip
  - [ ] Custom
- [ ] *Sort transaction data by date
- [ ] *Manually open transaction dialog from button in home screen
- [ ] Trigger transaction dialog via push notification
- [ ] *Push notification for daily reminders
- [ ] *Google verification center stuff
- [ ] Try, catch for async fetch calls
- [ ] Email parsing error handling
- [x] Configure Expo router
- [ ] *Deploy

## BUGS
- [ ] Database timestamp not mapped to local time
- [ ] Placeholder text missing in category, merchant dialogs
- [ ] Placeholder image for custom providers
- [ ] UI action button spacing for MerchantDialog

### FEATURE TODO

## Dependencies
- Expo SDK v54
- Babel
- ESLint

> Run `npx expo-doctor` to update dependencies if required

## Getting Started
| Command                         | Description                                                                                                                         |
|----------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `npx expo start`                   | Starts the development server (whether you are using a development build or Expo Go).                                               |
| `npx expo prebuild`                | Generates native Android and iOS directories using Prebuild.                                                                        |
| `npx expo run:android`             | Compiles native Android app locally.                                                                                                |
| `npx expo run:ios`                 | Compiles native iOS app locally.                                                                                                   |
|` npx expo install package-name`    | Used to install a new library or validate and update specific libraries in your project by adding --fix option to this command.     |
| `npx expo lint`                    | Setup and configures ESLint. If ESLint is already configured, this command will lint your project files.                            |

Commit message:

Implement custom provider regex and parsing

README.md, after:

# monin

React Native app to track expenses through email notifications

## Folder structure
Refer [here](https://javascript.plainenglish.io/react-native-folder-structures-architecture-explained-5177027dc2bb)

```
myApp/
├── App.tsx
├── assets/
│   └── images/
│   └── fonts/
├── components/
│   └── Button.tsx
│   └── Header.tsx
├── screens/
│   └── HomeScreen.tsx
│   └── LoginScreen.tsx
├── navigation/
│   └── AppNavigator.tsx
├── constants/
│   └── Colors.ts
│   └── Strings.ts
├── utils/
│   └── formatDate.ts
│   └── validators.ts
├── services/
│   └── api.ts
├── types/
│   └── index.ts
└── package.json
```

OR

```
├── assets/
├── scripts/
├── src/
│   ├── app/
│   │   ├── api/                    # API routes in a separate folder
│   │   │   ├── event+api.ts
│   │   │   └── user+api.ts
│   │   ├── layout.tsx
│   │   ├── layout.web.tsx         # separate layout file for web
│   │   ├── index.tsx
│   │   ├── events.tsx
│   │   └── settings.tsx
│   ├── components/
│   │   ├── Table/
│   │   │   ├── Cell.tsx
│   │   │   └── index.tsx
│   │   ├── BarChart.tsx
│   │   ├── BarChart.web.tsx        # separate components for web and native
│   │   └── Button.tsx
│   ├── screens/
│   │   ├── Home/
│   │   │   ├── Card.tsx            # component only used in the home page
│   │   │   └── index.tsx           # returned from /src/app/index.tsx
│   │   ├── Events.tsx              # returned from /src/app/events.tsx
│   │   └── Settings.tsx            # returned from /src/app/settings.tsx
│   ├── server/                     # code used in /api
│   │   ├── auth.ts
│   │   └── db.ts
│   ├── utils/                      # reusable utilities
│   │   ├── formatDate.ts
│   │   ├── formatDate.test.ts      # unit test next to the file being tested
│   │   └── pluralize.ts
│   ├── hooks/
│   │   ├── useAppState.ts
│   │   └── useTheme.ts
├── app.json
├── eas.json
└── package.json
```

## Features (MVP)

1. Email parsing (Gmail)
2. Push notification reminders (from email parsing/user scheduled)
3. Smart categorisation rules
4. Data visualisation (monthly cash flow, spending trends across categories)
5. Export data to csv, excel

## Future features

1. Custom categories & tags
2. Search & filter
3. Recurring transactions
4. Budget goals
5. Import old transaction email data, csv, excel
6. Support Outlook emails
7. OCR
8. Automatically classify income/expense
9. Cash and cashless payment integration
10. Gemini LLM integration to generate regex patterns from different email templates

## TODOs

- [x] Define features
- [x] Create figma design
  - [x] Login page
  - [x] Home page
  - [x] Settings page
  - [x] Use Bolt generate UI
  - [x] Use Figma make and touch up UI
- [x] Set up dev env
  - [x] Update dependencies
  - [x] File structure
- [ ] Create UI
  - [x] LoginScreen
  - [x] HomeScreen
    - [x] Configure Victory Native for bar chart
  - [ ] SettingsScreen
    - [x] Configure routing to SettingsScreen
    - [x] Explore email parsing in Gmail (Backend API)
    - [x] Install required dependencies
    - [x] Set up Google Authentication
      - [x] Initial auth request
      - [x] Code exchange for tokens
      - [ ] Persist session
        - [ ] Cookie for web (bug now. might not be necessary)
        - [x] Expo secure storage for native
        - [x] Refresh token API
    - [x] Create a test protected API (at least for native) 
    - [x] Link to Gmail APIs
    - [ ] Refresh logic for googleAccessToken (in gcloud?)
    - [x] Parse an existing transaction email
    - [ ] Match SettingsScreen UI
- [x] Gmail API restricted scope verification
- [x] Create new Gmail and set up email forwarding
  - [x] PayLah
  - [x] YouTrip 
- [x] Analyse email templates
  - [x] PayLah
  - [x] YouTrip 
- [x] Refactor email fetching logic
- [x] Parse email transactions
  - [x] PayLah
  - [x] YouTrip
- [x] Refactor email parsing logic
- [x] Regex to extract transaction data
- [x] Implement categorisation service
- [x] Configure SQLite DB and Drizzle ORM
- [x] Integrate user categorization rules with SQLite
  - [x] Transfer hard-coded categories and rules into database
  - [x] Test transactions are automatically categorized
- [x] UI to add category
- [x] Add delete existing category feature
- [x] UI to add categorization rules
- [x] *editRule, deleteRule methods for CategorizationService
- [x] *Add providers into database
- [x] *Separate providers logic from merchant logic
  - [x] GmailParser utils
  - [x] Fetch providers from DB
- [x] *UI to add custom provider
- [ ] *Custom provider regex logic (paste emailBlock and txnBlock)
  - [ ] Fix Revolut email parsing
- [ ] Gmail watch mode
  - [ ] Run email parsing on receiving new email
- [ ] Add section for transactions with undefined categories for manual review
- [ ] Add manual review for transactions with auto-approve disabled
  - [ ] Prompt user via push notification
- [ ] *Store and cache transaction data
- [ ] *Display transaction data in UI (graphs, list, etc)
  - [ ] PayLah
  - [ ] YouTrip
  - [ ] Custom
- [ ] Sort transaction data by date
- [ ] *Manually open transaction dialog from button in home screen
  - [ ] Add income/expense
- [ ] Trigger transaction dialog via push notification
- [ ] Push notification for daily reminders
- [ ] *Google verification center stuff
- [ ] Try, catch for async fetch calls
- [ ] Email parsing error handling
- [x] Configure Expo router
- [ ] *Deploy

## BUGS
- [ ] Database timestamp not mapped to local time
- [ ] Placeholder text missing in category, merchant dialogs
- [ ] Placeholder image for custom providers
- [ ] UI action button spacing for MerchantDialog
- [ ] Scrollview not smooth for ProviderDialog
- [x] parseEmailWithProvider in `gmailParser.ts` does not properly slice Revolut emails
  - [x] Debug why start and end is -1

### FEATURE TODO

## Dependencies
- Expo SDK v54
- Babel
- ESLint

> Run `npx expo-doctor` to update dependencies if required

## Getting Started
| Command                         | Description                                                                                                                         |
|----------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `npx expo start`                   | Starts the development server (whether you are using a development build or Expo Go).                                               |
| `npx expo prebuild`                | Generates native Android and iOS directories using Prebuild.                                                                        |
| `npx expo run:android`             | Compiles native Android app locally.                                                                                                |
| `npx expo run:ios`                 | Compiles native iOS app locally.                                                                                                   |
|` npx expo install package-name`    | Used to install a new library or validate and update specific libraries in your project by adding --fix option to this command.     |
| `npx expo lint`                    | Setup and configures ESLint. If ESLint is already configured, this command will lint your project files.                            |
